All right.
So that brings us to the end of yet another section.
So let's take a moment to celebrate this little victory and review everything that we learned.
This section was focused on view router and we started off by adding it to our app using the View Seeley
We executed the command view add router and that enabled our app to have that separate NPM library or
package added to our project.
So View Router is a totally separate library.
It is not part of the core view library which is just concerned with the view layer in your browser.
Routing is a totally separate feature and the beautiful part about the view ecosystem is these tools
are built to work with each other, but you're not obligated to use them if you don't want to.
So what does view router add to our app?
Well, it allows us to navigate the user to different pages of the app at different routes or paths.
So the view router observes wherever you currently are, and based on that route, it renders a component
right?
And that in turn can render a whole component tree underneath it.
And what happens when you navigate is view tiers down and replaces components at that given route.
So the actual website or page never really refreshes.
It just gives the user the impression of navigating a website.
But behind the scenes, it's all just a single bundle of JavaScript.
A view app is a single page app and loads once, and then it gives the user the impression of a of a
real non single page app website.
And of course because the user already has on the JavaScript, the time to load the next page is actually
rather quick compared to making a fresh request sometimes because the user just needs to tear down the
browser, rather needs to tear down that JavaScript and build up the next component in its place.
It does need to make a fresh server request for anything like extra data or extra JavaScript.
So how do we create a new router where we wire it up in our main address file and then we create that
router in a separate file?
We did that in our router index JASS file and we also specified an array of routes and each route declares
a path which is just the URL, a name, which is a unique identifier for that route.
And then the parent component that we want to render at that given route.
And we typically store our page components, the ones that kick everything off for a given page in The
View's directory to differentiate them from smaller view components.
At the end of the day, those views are still regular view components.
They have the exact same architecture, the exact same syntax.
But we specify that these are sort of the starting point for a given page.
We have the home view, we have the job results view, and they each render their own component tree
using those other smaller components that are in our components folder.
All right.
We also talked about the global components that Vue router gives us out of the box.
For example, the router view component is the one that actually watches the path and renders the correct
dynamic component as the path changes.
And we saw that we can actually mix that dynamic component with static, constant content.
So for example, we decided that no matter what the route was, we always wanted to have our main NAV.
But the component that appears below the main nav is the one that we want to be dynamically rendered
based on the path.
So we simply put our main nav component and then we put the router view component below it so that it
can take care of that substitution and that swapping when we navigate and we don't have to worry about
it.
So the router view component isn't anything visual in our browser, but it's the one that keeps track
of the route and changes to the proper component.
All right.
We also learned about the router link component, which we can use, and that is one that does appear
in our template and it is the one that simulates a hyperlink and anchor tag the attack.
So we no longer have a tags because that will force a page refresh that is a navigation to another website
URL, right?
Even if it's our own URL, it's navigating to our own website and it will force a refresh.
So we don't want that anymore.
But we do get we do want to give the user the impression of navigating.
So anywhere where we have an anchor tag, we typically replace it with a router link upon it because
that is what plays the role of our actual link, quote unquote from page to page, right?
The user clicks it just like anything else, and then we navigate them to a different path.
And the router view detects that and renders the correct component.
All right.
And what else does your router do for us?
Well, it injects some properties that are going to be available on every single component in or out.
For example, every component gains access to a root property.
And remember, these properties start with dollar sign.
And that's just a visual indicator to remind you that they are part of you or part of your router.
There's nothing technically special about the dollar sign.
It's just a regular character.
And so the root property will give you information about the current route that you are on.
So you can use that in a given component to, for example, conditionally render something based on
a given route.
And similarly, every component gains access to a router property with an R at the end.
And we can use that router, which is the full view router object.
We can use that to force navigation to a new path.
For example, when the user clicks a button, we can invoke the push method on that router object and
specify the new path that we want to direct the user to navigate to.
And we will take care of that movement and also that component replacement.
All right.
So Router Lincoln Waterview, as I mentioned, are registered as global components.
We can use them in any of our view components.
We do not need to import them.
We do not need to register them locally.
However, that creates an issue for our tests because our tests do not know the entire context of our
view app.
Our tests focus on a single component mounted in isolation so they do not understand where these components
are coming from.
And so we talked about this idea of we could stub out things like root or link with a generic stub that
comes from view test utils.
But a better solution, a more optimal solution is to use the router link stub component that is available
in Vue test utils and it's a more specialized stop.
It's like a better version of a replacement because it more effectively plays the role of a real router
link.
It's still not the actual real component, but it's an implementation that is close enough to it.
For example, it accepts the same props it can render its child text, etc. So we kind of simulate the
real thing very closely, but we don't actually involve that separate library.
We don't test the actual mechanics of the writerly component.
We still have a more lightweight replacement, but just a more specialized lightweight replacement compared
to the regular stub you get.
If you were to provide a boolean of true in that stubs object that we configure whenever we're mounting
a component.
All right.
Whenever we added all of those configuration objects with the stubs, we saw that we had a lot of duplication,
a lot of kind of commonality when it came to setting up the wrapper.
That wraps our component and gives it all of this additional functionality.
So to reduce that duplication, we first tried the before each function, which is a part of just and
what just will do is it will run the function that we give to before each once before each test.
So you can use that to, for example, set up a wrapper by using the shallow mount function in there
and then storing that new wrapper in a variable and then using that variable throughout the test suite.
However, as I mentioned, sometimes that can be a little bit deceiving because a person may not understand
what wrapper represents, they may get confused, and so it's fine.
I'm not saying it's bad, it's just one approach and you can choose whichever one best fits your style
or which one you think best communicates your intent with the test.
An alternative approach we tried is to keep our shallow amount function in every test, but move the
creation of the configuration object with the global property and the stubs property to its own factory
function.
A factory function is just a plain function that spits out a consistent output, and we try that approach
to also reduce duplication, but also have each test, know exactly what wrapper represents, how each
test represent or know which component is actually under test.
Right.
And that's an alternative approach.
Just to get you thinking about different ways that we can consolidate code in our test.
We All right.
That's all there is to cover in this section.
I hope you've had fun.
In the very next section, we're going to continue chipping away at the more advanced features of your
router.